---
layout: project
title: ENGRG 3900 Leadership Experience 

technologies: [Leadership, Respect, Responsbility, Listening skills, Confidence]
image: /assets/images/group_photo.jpg
---

In this journey of leadership, I have learned much about myself that I would love to share and also some awareness about some shortcomings that I want to be reminded of for further improvement. 

The core values I initially explored are creativity, nature, recognition, and control. I feel more cohesive with my values at this point, after a series of emotions, from surprise, to doubt, and feel a sense of consistency with me. I have always appreciated the existence of creativity and nature as part of me as they are positive or maybe neutral by my intuition. They are rooted in my emotion fluctuation: I can perceive my lightfulness when emerging in the light of sparks of people or self, or when putting myself in the natural environment. After many stressful decision-making moments, I find myself do care about control, and would feel anxious when losing control of things happening. While anxiety sometimes overwhelms me, I am also fighting back for my ownership of control as it is needed inside me. Along the semester, I have been practicing to have acknowledgement and recognition of my emotion and be rational about scheduling arrangements. Similarly, I practice to imply my recognition and practice to gain more weight of my own accomplishment. It is hard to quantify how much it helped me to overcome the overweighting of others’ recognition of me, but at least I believe it to some level is helping me to value my own achievement and thoughts in a more reasonable way.

When looking back to my inner critic, I see a lot of lack of recognition of my emotion there. I believe it is okay to let the emotion go up to occupy the mind, such as feeling bad about poor grades, about my selfish feelings, but I need to cut them there by noticing my emotions and my physical body changes as these emotions come up. Looking back to my final week, there was an extremely stressful moment when two finals together were near the corner and a report for the project team was squeezed in; I found the format was wrong and needed a lot of time to fix it when I was about to submit it and finally move on to review. I felt crushed at that point, like choking when I was about to take a deep breath to get a lot of air into my lungs. I then open my chatbox for myself, start typing things to comfort myself, to tell me to cool down, writing things like “girl it is okay…you have already tried your best. Just message the team lead and explain the things. She will understand it.” This action definitely did not resolve the problem, but it does drag me out of a pre-forming tornado. I was taking a deep breath, trying to relax myself out of this stressful situation. Perhaps, and very likely, the inner critic will come to me again sometimes.

I have to say much support and effort to fight against my inner critic is from my individual coaching sessions. My leadership purpose is to defeat procrastination, which has been my source of anxiety and frustration for a very long time. I do not feel the motivation to do my project and homeworks until the deadline is near the corner; besides, the excitement of finishing a project right before the deadline is kinda addictive to me, feeling like I catch the thief right before they are about to hop on the van. It gives me an extra feeling of excitement, like surviving the disaster. While the coaching session made me realize that projects associated with deadline actually can be visualized as a chuck in google calendar so that I can be more mentally free of pressure from constantly reminding myself of deadlines, and it can help me understand and quantify the time spent on each project which can be very beneficial for future planning. As you may think of, this also gives me a feeling of control: anything is under control. While sometimes definitely not and it may raise some concerned and nervous emotion inside me, I would practice the same way as dealing with inner critics: to pause the emotion and change the body position or gesture to release the tension. Set positive goals and emotions to catalyze positive reaction: acknowledge my current emotion, and affirm me with what I want to feel now and what I want to achieve out of this. Besides, I also started to practice making “conscious” decisions when I find myself distracted from doing what I plan to do, which is also very helpful.

Besides individual performance, I also learned a lot from team discussion and collaboration. As a whole, jaguars are my partners along the leadership trip. I learned a lot of things in hearing their genuine, deep questions and being involved in discussions. Being involved in others’ leadership projects in the way of listening to their speech and presentations and asking questions is very exciting, in a way that I can see their purpose being integrated into their projects and feel impressed about this process. In our team, I felt very lucky to be with a group of people passionate about sustainability so that I am able to contribute to the career that I am genuinely interested in doing. I am excited for our meeting every time: people are responsive in the groupchat; we all come with finished tasks that we prepared for the meeting; we practice skills learned from Friday lectures including and not limited to listening skills, disagreement addressing, and flexibility to move around the project based on the approachability and difficulties. This is such a dreamy team relationship, as everyone is passionate about the project, people are responsive, willing to share their thoughts even if it may be different from others. Together with my systemizers teammates, I get used to planning things ahead, being well prepared for every meeting, and engaging in the conversation with respect and attention. I can frankly say I enjoy this teamwork relationship the most among the group I have parallel in other courses this semester. 

I can find my strength and best-self feedback also reflected in my work later in the semester. For example, when Brielle in our systemizer meeting proposes new ideas, I can easily find the connection between the new points and its novelty and its compatibility with our leadership project, which is a reflection of my high acceptance of new ideas and my easy-going personality. Although I am glad to build connections with our project with my strength, I do see my weakness of applying many things I learned from personal typing and other evaluation to the project, which I hope I can seek a more clear connection between them in the work of this winter and next semester.  

Additionally, I do recognize something is not satisfied as I expected. As I predicted, I feel less bonded with other team members in jaguars as we formed each individual team and the schedule is really packed when it comes to the last third of the semester. I would like to engage in social activities and propose some movie nights and eating-out can make up for it. I also think I need more practice in handling procrastination, to write a little weekly report about each week’s progress, as I notice that there was some repetition of similar problems in refusing to plan for homework while Rob and I have already discussed what we should do. Keeping a close eye on google calendar and noting my status when procrastinating can better help me to achieve the goal of overcoming procrastination by the end of next semester. Also, I do acknowledge that procrastination can repetitively come up, but I want myself aware of actions that I can take, instead of dropping to the old traps. 





